When I think of Thailand, I [music]
think of a place where modernity exists
alongside tradition.
But behind [music] that postcard image
of a paradise is another reality.
Instability,
volatility,
uncertainty,
>> and in recent [music] years, economic
lethargy.
>> There's not a lot of innovation in the
economy. Thailand's GDP growth has been
about 2% for a while now. While
neighboring countries or peer economies
[music]
are growing rapidly,
>> foreign investors have taken note, or
more specifically, they've taken their
money.
>> Thailand looking to cut rates as growth
falters. [music]
>> No catalyst for a reversal of Thailand's
fortunes.
>> That word fortunes isn't relatable to
almost anyone outside Thailand's
entrenched elite. According to the World
Bank, Thailand has the highest level of
income inequality among Asia-Pacific
countries.
>> What's at stake is Thailand risks
getting left behind in one of the
world's fastest growing regions.
>> So, we're asking what went wrong and can
anything be done to turn things around?
>> Welcome to the White Lotus in Thailand.
HBO's The White Lotus offered a
high-profile glimpse of the experiences
that make Thailand a draw for travelers.
>> Tourism accounts for about a fifth of
[music] its economy.
>> Thailand is quite reliant on tourism
more so than than its peers [music] in
the region.
>> Like those peers, the country is also a
hub for manufacturing across multiple
sectors.
>> Automobiles, agricultural products,
food, and electronics. and it connects
supply chain between China and the rest
of Southeast Asia.
>> Those two economic engines, tourism and
exports, drove Thailand's $570 billion
economy in 2025, ranking at third in
Southeast Asia. But those same engines
are showing signs of strain. And the
White Lotus sadly did not include a
single chart about this. [music]
Before CO, Thailand was on track to
reach 40 million foreign visitors a
year. [music]
Then CO hit and tourism arrivals have
never really gotten back to the numbers
that [music] we've seen before.
>> On the manufacturing side, geopolitics
has also been a drag. [music]
>> In 2025, the US government imposing a
raft of tariffs around the world. So,
this is upending trade. This is upending
investment. [music]
That's what you're seeing here, a
measure of money flowing in and out of
Thailand. Since 2023, [music] investors
have been mostly pulling money away, and
by late 2025, the outflow reached a
record high.
Here's the thing, though. COVID and
tariffs affected everyone. To understand
what's uniquely throttling Thailand's
growth in an otherwise flourishing
region, we have to look back even
further.
Thailand saw rapid growth and
industrialization in the 1960s [music]
and it transformed from an agrarian
low-income country to a manufacturing
powerhouse.
The 1990s was the golden era of the Thai
economy. Thailand was on track to escape
poverty and become a rich country. The
economy was expanding at such a rapid
pace, [music] 8% to 9% a year.
People were spending, banks were
lending, companies were hiring,
>> but financial institutions took on
excessive [music] risks, bad loans, and
a great current account deficit.
>> And then [cheering] in 1997,
[music]
>> when the Asian financial crisis hit,
speculators started attacking the bot
and the currency lost more than half of
its value. Banks failed. [music]
Businesses went bankrupt almost
overnight. Millions lost jobs.
>> In the early 90s, Thailand's gross
domestic product was growing at a
healthy clip around here. But the
financial crisis left [music] a deep
scar and growth has never returned to
the same level. So why not?
>> In the wake of the 1997 financial
crisis, Thailand elected taxinawat as
its [music] prime minister. Toxin's
political rise is inseparable from his
business success.
As the founder of Thailand's largest
mobile operator, he gained the wealth,
visibility, and public profile that
helped [music] him connect with voters.
>> He became the country's most popular and
also most polarizing politician in
decades.
Growth of the Thai economy picked up
under Toxin's administration.
But economic and political success made
Toxin [music]
powerful in the eyes of Thailand's old
guard.
>> The establishment that's made up of
senior bureaucrats, business elites,
judges, has controlled the country's
[music] most powerful institutions since
the country became a constitutional
monarchy in [music] 1932. They did not
want a strong elected government that
would clash with its interests.
And that came to a boiling point in
2006.
>> Taxin was toppled in a military coup
that has led to a decadesl long rivalry
between Tin [music] and the old guards.
>> Years of protests and leadership changes
followed and this consistent political
upheaval is the first major contributor
to Thailand's unique economic problem.
Thailand has raced through prime
ministers over the last 20 years. Five
of them from Toxin's camp who came to
power through elections have been ousted
by court or by coup. This is a tug of
war between [music] the establishment
and the civilian government.
>> They take turn governing the [music]
country but at the same time none of
them stay long enough to really
introduce any meaningful changes. For
decades, this has broadly been defined
by a power struggle between
pro-democracy advocates and the [music]
elite.
>> Since Thailand became a democracy, it
already had 13 successful coups and
about 20 versions of the constitution.
From
an investor point of view, they [music]
want to have some certainty that the
policies that are in place today will be
surviving over the course of an
investment. But when you have a
revolving door of governments, [music]
you don't have that certainty.
>> Thailand's concentration of wealth at
the top has created another unique
bottleneck for the country.
>> One of the world's highest income
inequalities. In fact, its richest 10%
controls nearly 70% of a nation's
wealth. That's higher than any other
country in the region, such as
Indonesia, Malaysia, and Vietnam.
Bangkok and other economic corridors
were booming while the rest of the
country was engaged in low productivity
agricultural practices.
The majority of corporate wealth in
Thailand are in the hands of just a
[music] few hundred people. Rich
billionaire family in Thailand control
large conglomerates that dominate key
sectors [music] across the economy.
In Thailand, political access protects
business interest while wealth gives you
more political bargaining power.
Often
when economic power and political
authorities [music] sit within a small
group of people, they resist changes to
reduce monopoly, increase competitions,
and redistribute wealth.
>> And increasingly, this is being passed
on to ordinary families already burdened
by long-standing debt.
>> This is the legacy of the post 1997
crisis where credit was used to revive
growth. [music]
But when wages stagnate and consumption
is expected to rise, households borrow
and sometimes more than they can pay
back.
>> At roughly 90% of GDP, [music] Thai
household debt is now among the highest
in Asia, only scarcely below South Korea
and Hong Kong.
Now, when a huge chunk of a family's
income goes toward interest payments,
it's harder for them to spend on
anything else. And that includes further
education. Bringing us neatly to the
last stop on our tour of Thailand's
unique economic bottlenecks. [music]
Talent.
>> Thailand produces relatively fewer
engineers, data scientists, and [music]
those high skilled jobs than the rest of
the Southeast Asian countries. And it
also [music] doesn't have the same level
of English proficiency as other
countries either.
>> This is holding Thailand back. While
countries in Southeast Asia are racing
to attract AI [music] and semiconductor
investment,
>> Thailand is sort of stuck in old
technologies that is slowly losing
momentum without having any new products
to offer to sell the world.
>> And it's facing another issue with its
workforce.
>> Thailand is aging faster than it is
getting richer.
So about the middle of [music] the
2010s, Thailand's working age
population, the growth in that cohort
started to [music] slow dramatically.
And then from about 2019, actually the
workforce started to shrink.
>> And looking ahead, this decline is
projected to keep accelerating for
decades to come. If nothing changes, by
[music] the 2030s and 2040s, the
workforce could contract by around 1%
each year.
So today, Thailand is battling a perfect
storm, stagnant growth, soaring debt,
and a shrinking workforce. All against a
backdrop of political instability, and
deep inequality. Its leaders are faced
with solving a puzzle of debt and
demographics in a world that won't wait
for it to catch up. Policy makers say
they're aware of the most urgent issues.
We have planned on upgrading
productivities in Thailand, [music]
especially le skill and upskill of Thai
people, promoting investment.
>> Yet, no matter who's in power, they'll
have to contend with the same problem
that's held the country back for
decades.
>> There's not a lot of focus in in
building industries that could power the
economy into the future.
Political instability is a root cause
for that. And [music] unless there's a
meaningful reform in the political
system, in the power [music] structure,
Thailand is never really going anywhere.
[music]